Guru Yoga of the Great Omniscient One, Longchenpa
by Shechen Gyaltsab Gyurme Pema Namgyal

ah, ösal lhündrub jazer tiklé long
Āḥ. Within a spherical expanse of spontaneously present and naturally luminous rainbow light
kadak dömé gönpo longchenpa
Appears the primordially pure protector, Longchenpa;
karsal dzé dzum ngalsö chakgya chen
Handsome with a radiant white complexion, he smiles.
drenpé chok ter kyab kün ngowor sal
The very essence of all refuges is seated before me in the posture of mind at ease—merely to
recall him bestows the most excellent accomplishment.
yeshe kuchen dömé gönpo la
Primordial protector with your body of pure wisdom,
güpé chaktsal chö bul solwa deb
With the greatest of respect I prostrate myself before you and present you with offerings.
tserab trengwar dralmé jé zung la
I pray that throughout the garland of my lives to come we shall never be apart,
tuk yi chik tu drepar jingyi lob
And that I may always follow you until I’m blessed—our minds merged as one.
Recite the following mantra:
om ah hung benza maha guru bimala rasmi sarwa siddhi hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahā guru vimala rasmi sarva siddhi hūṃ1
Finally, continue with:
lama gyepé ö shyu rang la tim
The guru appears delighted; dissolving into light he merges with me,
yeshe gongpé tsal wang sem la dzok
And the empowerment of the expression of enlightened wisdom is perfected within my mind—
riktong chö zé gongpa lamé shyal
The wisdom of awareness and emptiness conjoined, the exhaustion of all phenomena, which is the
actual face of the guru,
dü shyi nyamnyi long du emaho
The even expanse of the fourth time, wonderful!
And with this inspiration, relax into meditative equipoise.

I, Pema Gyepa (One who Pleases the Lotus-Born), wrote this to fulfil the request of the sublime
lama and yogin of the natural great perfection, Ösel Jalü Dorje.

| Translated by Sean Price and edited by Christopher Teague and Adam Pearcey, 2019.
↑ This mantra incorporates Longchen Rabjam’s personal name, Drimé Özer, translated into Sanskrit
as Vimalarasmi.