Swift Infusion of Blessings: A Guru Yoga based on Jamgön Mipham Gyatso
by Shechen Gyaltsab Gyurme Pema Namgyal

Namo guru mañjuśrīye!
For those who are motivated by renunciation and bodhicitta and who seek to attain liberation
in a single lifetime, here is a practice of the profound path, the meditation of guru yoga:
malü kyab kün düpé dak
I take refuge in the supreme guru,
lama chok la kyab chi shying
Who embodies all sources of refuge without exception.
shyendön dzok jang tob jé chir
To attain perfect awakening for others’ sake,
lamé naljor gompar gyi
I shall meditate on the yoga of the guru.
Thus, take refuge and generate bodhicitta as a preliminary.
Then, for the main visualization:
a, nöchü namdak womin dakpé shying
Ah. Environment and inhabitants are utterly pure, the heaven of Akaniṣṭha,
püntsok chöpé trinpung trikpé long
Where, amidst an expanse of bountiful clouds of offerings,
dün gyi namkhar sengtri pé dé teng
In the sky before me, upon a lion-throne and discs of sun and moon,
künkhyen lama mipam namgyal ni
Is the omniscient guru, Mipham Namgyal,
karsal dzé dzum pandita yi ché
Brilliant white, smiling handsomely, and dressed as a paṇḍita.
chö ché chakgyé la dri lekbam dzin
His hands, in the dharma-teaching mudrā, hold a sword and book.
dorjé kyil trung tatang kha la zik
He is seated in the vajra posture and gazes into space.
ku la den sum kyilkhor yongsu dzok
At the three seats within his body, all maṇḍalas are complete.
drenpa tsam gyi yeshe kyé nüpé
Merely to think of him causes pristine wisdom to arise.
kyab kün düpé ngowor lham mér sal
Vivid and clear, he is the embodiment of all sources of refuge.
Gathering the accumulations:
kyab kündüpé drinchen lama la
Before the gracious guru in whom all sources of refuge are contained,
güpé chaktsal chö bul diktung shak
I prostrate myself in devotion, make offerings, confess misdeeds and downfalls,
gé la yi rang kul shying solwa yi
Rejoice in virtue and request the teachings,
gé tsok dro kün namkhyen tob chir ngo
And I dedicate all the virtue of my prayers toward all beings’ attainment of omniscience.
Invocation and prayer
mawé sengé khyen rab tuk la shar
The wisdom of Mañjuśrī, Lion of Speech, arose in your heart,
kuntuzangpö mönlam nampar jang
And you trained in the infinite aspirations of Samantabhadra,
sé ché gyalwé trinlé drub dzepa
Performing the enlightened actions of the buddhas and their heirs:
jampal gyepé dorjér solwa deb
Jampal Gyepé Dorje, to you I pray!
rangrig lamé ngowor ngé nyé tü
Through the power of gaining certainty that my own pure awareness is the guru’s very essence,
zung pob lodrö jewé ter la wang
May I unlock the treasury of perfect recollection, confident eloquence and intelligence,
tsö ché tsompé gyalten sal nüpa
And gain the capacity to illumine the teachings of the victorious ones through debate, explanation
and composition.
gönpo chok dang nyampar jingyi lob
Inspire me with your blessings, O supreme protector, so that I may become your equal!
Complete the main part of the session with fervent prayer in this way. At the end, you may recite
the following name mantra:
om ah guru mandzushri adzita sarwa siddhi pala hung
oṃ āḥ guru mañjuśrī ajita sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
Recite the mantra as many times as possible.
Then, to receive empowerment:
lamé né sum dorjé dru sum zer
From the three vajra syllables at the guru’s three centres, rays of light shine out
rang gi né sum timpé wang shyi tob
And dissolve into my own three centres; through this I receive the four empowerments,
drib shyi jang shying lam shyi tendrel drik
Purify the four obscurations, and gain the conditions to train in the four paths,
ku shyi gopang gyü la shyakpar gyur
So that the seeds of the four kāyas are planted in my mind!
tar ni lama ö shyu rang la tim
Finally, the guru melts into light and dissolves into me.
tuk yi chik dré gongpé tsal chen dzok
His wisdom becomes one with my own mind, and my potential for realization is perfected.
yedrol lodé dechen nyukmé shi
Here is the already liberated genuine nature, blissful and beyond the ordinary mind,
machö dzogpa chenpö long du a
Unaltered, the expanse of the Great Perfection: Ah!
Rest in equipoise for as long as you can.
When you arise, dedicate the merit, and do not part from the practise of recognising all that
appears as the guru.

Thus, to fulfil the request of Tsewang Rigdzin, an exponent of the five sciences, I, Jamyang
Lodrö Gyatso, the worst of all the students that this great protector nurtured in his compassion,
wrote this and prayed accordingly on an auspicious date. May it become a cause for
the guru to care for and guide us throughout all our lives! Sarva maṅgalam. May it be virtuous!
May it be virtuous! May it be virtuous!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.